# MLP Project
## Abstract

One of the main challenges in the digital era is the difficulty of evaluating the reliability of information sources. Fake news have been a central theme of this topic given its proliferation and detrimental effect on society. Previous research have focused on the identification and classification ofnews into fake and real using different methods. Yet, the nexus between fake news classification and citizen level information update is missing. The proposed method in the project revolves around comparing two base line models and assessing the performance on fake news data set obtained from ”ISOT Fake News” database, which is made available by the University ofVictoria, Canada. The motivation ofthe project is provide machine learning model that can be used as embedded baseline for fake news classification model for a user friendly interface offered to the citizen. Scientifically, fake news is a prominent topic in the machine learning literature. The majority offake news classification research is focused on fake news primarily in the English language. In addition to using English language dataset as an initial phase ofthe project for testing supervised machine learning algorithms, Logistic Regression and Passive Aggressive Classifier performance, the project also used Spanish language fake news data set that was augmented by data web scrapped from Spanish news websites. The English and non-English language approach was used to compare the performance of both models. The project implements the model on both text and title of English language dataset, while implementing the models on text in Spanish dataset. Confining the research on text data in Spanish dataset is due to the level insignificance in the difference shown in the model’s performance between text and title observed in the English dataset. On the other hand, across language results show lower performance level of Logistic Regression in comparison to Passive Aggressive Classifier. Performance metrics used to measure performance are accuracy and F1 score in addition to confusion matrix and cross validation to ensure the absence ofbias during the training and
fitting phase. 
